The Dzogchen View of Padma Samye Ling Monastery and Retreat Center on April 4, 2008.
And for that reason, again, these whole things are kind of used by the future Buddha Maitri,
a used very beautiful metaphor, a metaphor in his teachings. And here he said, for example,
when you are sick, one person is sick, sick, and now he is having difficulties, and he is
in pain. Then he went to the doctor. The doctor diagnosed that, and then the doctor found
out exactly what the sickness is. And therefore, the doctor kind of diagnosed it, discovered
exactly the reason or the cause of this pain and that sickness. And so now when you see
the pain as pain, and then you find out, oh, what is the cause of this pain? And that is
the like knowledge that which you really you need or that order to treat that sickness,
you have to know what the cause of that sickness is. And then now, and once you have your diagnosis
that well, or perfectly, and then doctor give the also exactly the medicine. Medicine, not
wrong medicine, not like higher dosage, not low dosage, but exactly as needed, give dosage,
and taking that dosage or that medicine, that is the same as like then the practicing or
that is part. And so now, the sickness is like suffering truth. Knowing the cause of
that, the doctor diagnosed that, and the cause of that sickness and knowing that is the cause
of suffering truth. By that, doctor give the medicine and you're taking that dosage and
that is like part truth. As you're taking the medicine, as you are now getting better
and better, and then finally, you're completely cured from that disease and that is the second
truth. And when we cure that disease, what we become? We didn't become the different
person, but only we cured the disease. That disease is unnatural. Unnatural is disturbing
to natural systems. Systems. Systems, through the expertise of the doctor, we tell the medicine
that medicine balance us back to the where we are used to be. And that is the second
truth. And so that is the one. The practice is like medicines, medicines, and we are removing
the unnatural things and then discovering what we are. And that is then the Buddha. That's
what always in the Dzogki teaching or the Vayayana teaching, often mentioned liberated
to the original status. The original state is a natural status. We are now a deluded
status by all the duality minds. When deluded duality mind, this publication of the delusion
status liberated to the original status, then we discover what true we are or what very
natural we belong to.